Mondstadt

Equivalent Exchange Quest: 

To unlock the Equivalent Exchange World Quest, you will need to talk to Viktor in the Favonius Cathedral 
after completing the Tales of Winter commission. You will only need to complete this commission once.

Go to the Mondstadt Cathedral and talk to Viktor.

Head to the Good Hunter and talk to Sara. Choose the option: “Do you sell any Mondstadt specialties?”

After the conversation, cook a Satisfying Salad and give it to Sara.

Talk to Flora and ask her, “Do you sell any Mondstadt specialties?”. Answer Yes to her question about Dandelions. If you answer No, you'll have to gather Dandelions.

Head to the Angel's Share and talk to Charles. Ask him, “Do you sell any Mondstadt specialties?”. Afterwards, you'll be sent to gather ingredients.

Go to the designated areas and clear the Hilichurl Camp. The item will be obtained after doing so. Then, defeat the Slime reinforcements.

Return to Charles and talk to him again.

After obtaining the three specialties, return to Viktor. You'll have to talk to Viktor three times and give a Mondstadt specialty each time. No specific order is needed.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Chasm and Liyue

The Missing Miner Quest:

The Missing Miner is located inside a large, hollow tree in the Underground Waterway area of The Chasm's mines in Genshin Impact. 
You have to read a Work Handbook inside that hollow tree to activate the quest.

Teleport to the waypoint east of the Underground Waterway and go west. Find a fallen trunk around the area and look for a hollow space inside it.

Keep exploring the hollow tree until you see a table and a Work Handbook. Reading this will start the quest!

This quest can only be accessed within The Underground Mines of the The Chasm. Once you've played through The Chasm Delvers quest chain, you can get The Missing Miner Quest!

Find the Work Handbook.
Go to the marked area and collect the Starshrooms to get the Mushroom Meat.
Fight off the Floating Hydro Fungi that appear after collecting the Mushroom Meat.
After defeating the Floating Fungi go back to the camp and talk to Junyi. This will complete the quest!


Our Chenyu Vale Trek Quest:

Our Chenyu Vale Trek will be unlocked after completing after completing Threefold Expectations quest in Qiaoying Village!

After completing the prerequisite quest, travel to Yilong Wharf and find Fangju inside Hezhe Post—the tower next to the southern waypoint.

There are four scenic spots to take a photo of for the contest that will be marked on your map. You'll need to take the photos at specific 
times using your Kamera Gadget to complete the objective.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Inazuma

The Gourmet Supremos: The Importance of Eating Well World Quest

Complete The Gourmet Supremos: Breakthrough Thinking Daily Commission and give the ingredients to Xiangling in Qingce Village.

The Gourmet Supremos: The Importance of Eating Well
Something seems to have Parvaneh of the Gourmet Supremos all in a fluster...

The Gourmet Supremos: The Importance of Eating Well Objectives

Talk to Parvaneh who is just by the Adventurers' Guild post in Inazuma City.
Head to Chinju Forest and talk to Xudong.
Head northwest and defeat the enemies on the marked area.
After defeating the hilichurls, talk to Julie.
Head to the next marked area and defeat the enemies.
After defeating the Nobushi, Talk to Kamei Munehisa to complete the Quest.


O Archon, Have I Done Right? World Quest:

Complete Shouta's Daily Commissions
Complete the Daily Commissions O Archon, Hear Me! and O Shrine, Show Your Power Once Again!
How to Get Shouta's Commissions
You will have to complete O Archon, Hear Me! commission in order to get the O Shrine, Show Your Power Once Again! Daily Commission.

However, Daily Commissions are given randomly. There's no guarantee that you will get O Shrine, Show Your Power Once Again! the day after you complete O Archon, Hear Me!
Offer Konpeito and Small, Cold Dish
During the O Shrine, Show Your Power Once Again! quest, you will be given options on what to offer depending on which shrine you choose to make offerings to.
To unlock the world quest, you will have to get this Daily Commission at least twice, in order to have visited both shrines.
While the commission can go different ways, it is important to remember to always offer food. This is likely a nod to the Electro Archon's fondness of sweets.

O Archon, Have I Done Right?
The shrine that Shouta has been giving sincere offerings to has stopped giving him replies. He seeks you out for help...

O Archon, Have I Done Right? Objectives

You will find Shouta in front of the shrine in Inazuma City. He will tell you about his offerings disappearing and ask for your help investigating the matter.
Upon going to the outskirts of the city, you will find 3 Treasure Hoarders surrounding the shrine. Defeat the Treasure Hoarders to trigger the next cutscene.
Talk to Kouichi who will be standing nearby. He will say that his parents told him he still needed to work hard even if he made offerings to the deities.
Go to Yayoi Nanatsuki of the Yayoi Lacquerware. She will convince Shouta that the deities have been attempting to help him by sending a mysterious girl to make him study.
Shouta will suddenly see the girl approach, but nobody else will. This will scare Shouta into running away.
Yayoi will seem unconcerned with this, and once you finish talking to her, the quest will end.


The Ritou Road World Quest:

Complete Chapter 2: Prologue and the ''Ritou Escape Plan'' in Chapter 2: Act 1

Head to the small house southwest of Ritou.
Interact with the secret passage hidden beside the small house.
Investigate the three items in the camp.
Head to the indicated location to hide and observe Harrison.
Defeat all the Slimes.
Talk to Harrison.


Storytelling Method Quest:

Complete “This Novel Seems... Familiar?”
To unlock ''This Novel seems... Familiar'', you need to take the side of the Editor from Yae Publishing House, Shigeru in “Is this Novel Amazing?” Commission Quest.
Complete “This Novel Seems... Problematic?”
To unlock “This Novel seems... Problematic?”, you need to side with the Author of Onibudou, Junkichi in “Is this Novel Amazing?” Commission Ques
Confirm with Editorial Opinion Achievement
The two commissions mentioned above are the outcome of whether you side with Shigeru or Junkichi during the Is this Novel Amazing? commission. You'll know you got the quest when you get the Editorial Opinion Achievement!
Set Your Preferred Region to Inazuma
Since the quest requires specific commissions to unlock this quest, you can set your Preferred Region to always appear from Inazuma! You can do this by accessing your Handbook.

Talk to Junkichi and Shigeru in Inazuma City.
You will then get teleported to a domain. Get a feel for Junkichi's story by going through it. Follow Junkichi's narration as you go.
Defeat any opponents you encounter along the way.
Explore the domain and obtain the intel on the fake tree.
Report back to Junkichi. Finish the conversation to complete the quest!


The Narukami Trail World Quest:

How to Unlock The Narukami Trail
Complete the Neko Is a Cat Quest Series
In order to unlock Neko's various Daily Commissions to access this final quest, you must first complete all nine Neko Is a Cat World Quests.
Complete Neko's Daily Commissions
Complete three of Neko's Daily Commissions, The Cat's Trail, Fishy Flavor, and Shrine Cleanup to unlock The Narukami Trail quest.
Set Your Preferred Region to Inazuma
Since the quest requires specific commissions to unlock this quest, you can set your Preferred Region to always appear from Inazuma! You can do this by accessing your Handbook.
Talk to Neko to Unlock
Daily Commissions are randomized, so getting the three quests one day after the other is not guaranteed. However, once you have completed each of Neko's daily commissions at least once, The Narukami Trail should become available.

Neko will ask you to accompany her to the Grand Narukami Shrine, hoping you can find out where Hibiki went.
Teleport to the Waypoint outside the Kamisato Estate and head north using the road leading up the mountain.
Teleport directly to the Grand Narukami Shrine and talk to Neko in front of the Sacred Sakura Tree.
Talk to the shrine maiden, Inagi Hotomi, to the left of the Sacred Sakura Tree and ask her about Hibiki.
Teleport back outside the Kamisato Estate and head down the road towards one of the Torii gates, where Neko will ask you to take her back home.
Head back to the Asase Shrine and talk to Neko once more to complete the quest.

Completing this quest will also give you the Her and Her Cat Achievement!